# CapstoneProject

# Building a tool to assess business performance based on customer reviews

With the increasing popularity of on-line review databases such as Yelp, both consumers and business owners now have access to a wealth of customer review data that was not possible a decade ago. For the business owner, this data represents a valuable resource, providing insight into customer satisfaction and business performance. While some of the more objective assessments, such as star ratings, may give some idea of customer satisfaction, they do little to provide real insight into exactly how a given business is meeting the expectations of its customers, or as the case may be, falling short. 

To fill this gap, customers are encouraged to write reviews that appear as blocks of text. These give the consumer a chance to elaborate on his or her experience with more specific descriptions and offer a wealth of information for the business owner. Yet sifting through customer review texts can be an arduous process; for the business owner wanting to draw general conclusions from hundreds of such documents, the task may be prohibitively time-consuming. 

This project is a feasibility study aimed at creating an program that can help streamline this process, making it easier for business owners to gain more insight into the satisfaction of their customers from Yelp reviews. By submitting a query using a business' Yelp business ID, the application will return several pieces of information. The first is a plot of average star ratings (averaged monthly) over time, showing the general trend in the business’ customer satisfaction. The second is output from a text-mining analysis, aimed at extracting meaningful insight from the written texts of customer reviews. If, for example, a restaurant owner discovers that the word “wait” is often found in the negative reviews, he or she might infer that customers are often critical of how long they must wait for seating or food/drink service. The goal of this project is to determine if such text-mining algorithms can be tuned to provide useful information to the business owner.
